the bastille was taken about four o'clock in the afternoon; and after the struggle to save the prisoners, some necessary regulations were proposed, to secure the public safety. the conduct of the men in office had so irritated the people, that the cry against aristocrats was now raised; and a number of persons of distinction were brought to the htel-de-ville this evening, by the restless populace, who, roving about the streets, seemed to create some of the adventures, which were necessary to employ their awakened spirit. breathless with victory, they, for the moment, gave a loose to joy; but the sounds of exultation dying away with the day, night brought back all their former apprehensions; and they listened with fresh affright to the report, that a detachment of troops was preparing to enter one of the barriers. not, therefore, allowing themselves to sleep on / their conquering arms, this was, likewise, a watchful night; for the taking of the bastille, though it was a proof of the courage and resolution of the parisians, by no means secured them against the insidious schemes of the court. they had shown their determination to resist oppression very forcibly; but the troops that excited their resistance were still apparently waiting for an opportunity to destroy them. every citizen then hurried to his post, for their very success made them the more alive to fear. the tocsin was again rung, and the cannon that had forced the bastille to surrender dragged hastily to the place of alarm. the pavement of the adjacent streets was torn up, with astonishing quickness, and carried to the tops of the houses; where the women, who were equally animated, stood prepared to hurl them down on the soldiers.  all paris, in short, was awake; and this vigilance either frustrated the designs of the cabal, or intimidated the hostile force, which never appeared to have entered with earnestness into it's measures. for it is probable, that some decisive stroke had been concerted; but that the officers, who expected by their presence only to have terrified into obedience / the citizens, whose courage, on the contrary, they roused, were rendered irresolute by the disaffection of the soldiers. thus was the nation saved by the almost incredible exertion of an indignant people; who felt, for the first time, that they were sovereign, and that their power was commensurate to their will. this was certainly a splendid example, to prove, that nothing can resist a people determined to live free; and then it appeared clear, that the freedom of france did not depend on a few men, whatever might be their virtues or abilities, but alone on the will of the nation.