some celebrated writers have supposed that wit and judgment were incompatible;a opposite / qualities, that, in a kind of elementary strife, destroyed each other: and many men of wit have endeavoured to prove that they were mistaken. much may be adduced by wits and metaphysicians on both sides of the question. but, from experience, i am apt to believe that they do weaken each other, and that great quickness of comprehension, and facile association of ideas, naturally preclude profundity of research. wit is often a lucky hit; the result of a momentary inspiration. we know not whence it comes, and it blows where it lists. the operations of judgment, on the contrary, are cool and circumspect; and coolness and deliberation are great enemies to enthusiasm. if wit is of so fine a spirit, that it almost evaporates when translated into another language, why may not the temperature have an influence over it? this remark may be thought derogatory to the inferior qualities of the mind: but it is not a hasty one; and i mention it as / a prelude to a conclusion i have frequently drawn, that the cultivation of reason damps fancy. the blessings of heaven lie on each side; we must choose, if we wish to attain any degree of superiority, and not lose our lives in laborious idleness. if we mean to build our knowledge or happiness on a rational basis, we must learn to distinguish the possible, and not fight against the stream. and if we are careful to guard ourselves from imaginary sorrows and vain fears, we must also resign many enchanting illusions: for shallow must be the discernment which fails to discover that raptures and ecstasies arise from error.  whether it will always be so, is not now to be discussed; suffice it to observe, that truth is seldom arrayed by the graces; and if she charms, it is only by inspiring a sober satisfaction, which takes its rise from a calm contemplation of proportion and simplicity. but, though it is allowed that one man has by nature more / fancy than another, in each individual there is a spring-tide when fancy should govern and amalgamate materials for the understanding; and a graver period, when those materials should be employed by the judgment. for example, i am inclined to have a better opinion of the heart of an old man, who speaks of sterne as his favourite author, than of his understanding.b there are times and seasons for all things: and moralists appear to me to err, when they would confound the gaiety of youth with the seriousness of age; for the virtues of age look not only more imposing, but more natural, when they appear rather rigid. he who has not exercised his judgment to curb his imagination during the meridian of life, becomes, in its decline, too often the prey of childish feelings. age demands respect; youth love: if this order is disturbed, the emotions are not