first, however, it is necessary to make what we know practical. who can deny, that has marked the slow progress of civilization, that men may become more virtuous and happy without any new discovery in morals? who will venture to assert that virtue would not be promoted by the more extensive cultivation of reason? if nothing more is to be done, let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die  and die for ever! who will pretend to say, that there is as much happiness diffused on this globe as it is capable of affording? as many social virtues as reason would foster, if she could gain the strength she is able to acquire / even in this imperfect state; if the voice of nature was allowed to speak audibly from the bottom of the heart, and the native unalienable rights of men were recognized in their full force; if factitious merit did not take place of genuine acquired virtue, and enable men to build their enjoyment on the misery of their fellow creatures; if men were more under the dominion of reason than opinion, and did not cherish their prejudices 'because they were prejudices?' i am not, sir, aware of your sneers, hailing a millennium, though a state of greater purity of morals may not be a mere poetic fiction; nor did my fancy ever create a heaven on earth, since reason threw off her swaddling clothes. i perceive, but too forcibly, that happiness, literally speaking, dwells not here;  and that we wander to and fro in a vale of darkness as well as tears. i perceive that my passions pursue objects that the imagination / enlarges, till they become only a sublime idea that shrinks from the enquiry of sense, and mocks the experimental philosophers who would confine this spiritual phlogiston in their material crucibles.a i know that the human understanding is deluded with vain shadows, and that when we eagerly pursue any study, we only reach the boundary set to human enquires.  thus far shalt thou go, and no further, says some stern difficulty; and the cause we were pursuing melts into utter darkness. but these are only the trials of contemplative minds, the foundation of virtue remains firm.  the power of exercising our understanding raises us above the brutes; and this exercise produces that 'primary morality,' which you term 'untaught feelings.'b