and elevation which the thought of this naturally inspires. his air, his manner, his deportment, all mark that elegant and graceful sense of his own superiority, which those who are born to inferior station can hardly ever arrive at. these are the arts by which he proposes to make mankind more easily submit to his authority, and to govern their inclinations according to his own pleasure: and in this he is seldom disappointed. these arts, supported by rank and preeminence, are, upon ordinary occasions, sufficient to govern the world. lewis xiv during the greater part of his reign, was regarded, not only in france, but over all europe, as the most perfect model of a great prince. but what were the talents and virtues by which he acquired this great reputation? was it by the scrupulous and inflexible justice of all his undertakings, by the immense dangers and difficulties with which they were attended, or by the unwearied and unrelenting application with which he pursued them? was it by his extensive knowledge, / by his exquisite judgment, or by his heroic valour? it was by none of these qualities. but he was, first of all, the most powerful prince in europe, and consequently held the highest rank among kings; and then, says his historian, "he surpassed all his courtiers in the gracefulness of his shape, and the majestic beauty of his features. the sound of his voice, noble and affecting, gained those hearts which his presence intimidated. he had a step and a deportment which could suit only him and his rank, and which would have been ridiculous in any other person. the embarrassment which he occasioned to those who spoke to him, flattered that secret satisfaction with which he felt his own superiority."a these frivolous accomplishments, supported by his rank, and, no doubt too, by a degree of other talents and virtues, which seems, however, not to have been much above mediocrity, established this prince in the esteem of his own age, and have drawn, even from posterity, a good deal of respect for his memory. compared with these, in his own times, and in his own presence, no other virtue, / it seems, appeared to have any merit. knowledge, industry, valour, and beneficence, trembled, were abashed, and lost all dignity before them.'b