respect on account of their great abilities or daring virtues? where are they to be found?  'to be observed, to be attended to, to be taken notice of with sympathy, complacency, and approbation, are all the advantages which they seek.'a  true! my male readers will probably exclaim; but let them, before they draw any conclusion, recollect that this was not written originally as descriptive of women, but of the rich. in dr smith's theory of moral sentiments, i have found a / general character of people of rank and fortune, that, in my opinion, might with the greatest propriety be applied to the female sex. i refer the sagacious reader to the whole comparison; but must be allowed to quote a passage to enforce an argument that i mean to insist on, as the one most conclusive against a sexual character. for if, excepting warriors, no great men, of any denomination, have ever appeared amongst the nobility, may it not be fairly inferred that their local situation swallowed up the man, and produced a character similar to that of women, who are localized, if i may be allowed the word, by the rank they are placed in, by courtesy? women, commonly called ladies, are not to be contradicted in company, are not allowed to exert any manual strength; and from them the negative virtues only are expected, when any virtues are expected, patience, docility, good-humour, and flexibility; virtues incompatible with any vigorous exertion of intellect. besides, by living more with each other, and being seldom absolutely alone, they are more under the influence of sentiments than passions. solitude and reflection are necessary to give to wishes the force of passions, and to / enable the imagination to enlarge the object, and make it the most desirable. the same may be said of the rich; they do not sufficiently deal in general ideas, collected by impassioned thinking, or calm investigation, to acquire that strength of character on which great resolves are built. but hear what an acute observer says of the great.