after the revolution in , however, political questions were no longer discussed in / england on a broad scale; because that degree of liberty was enjoyed, which enabled thinking  to pursue without interruption their own business; or, if some  complained, they attached themselves to a party, and descanted on the unavoidable misery produced by contending passions.it is time, that a more enlightened moral love of mankind should supplant, or rather / support physical affections. it is time, that the youth approaching manhood should be led by principles, and not hurried along by sensations  and then we may expect, that the heroes of the present generation, still having their monsters to cope with, will labour to establish such rational laws throughout the world, that  will not rest in the dead letter, or become artificial beings as they become civilized.us, that we are naturally inclined to evil: we shall then leave room for the expansion of the human heart, and, i trust, find, that  will insensibly render each other happier as they grow wiser. it is indeed the necessity of stifling many of it's most spontaneous desires, to obtain the factitious virtues of society, that makes  vicious, by depriving him of that dignity of character, which rests only on truth. for it is not paradoxical to assert, that the social virtues / are nipt in the bud by the very laws of society. one principal of action is sufficient  respect thyself  whether it be termed fear of god  religion; love of justice  morality; or, self-love  the desire of happiness. yet, how can a  respect himself; and if not, how believe in the existence of virtue; when he is practising the daily shifts, which do not come under the cognisance of the law, in order to obtain a respectable situation in life? it seems, in fact, to be the business of a civilized , to harden his heart, that on it he may sharpen the wit; which, assuming the appellation of sagacity, or cunning, in different characters, is only a proof, that the head is clear, because the heart is cold.reflecting on the conduct of the tools of courts, we are enabled in a greatthe despotism of the former government of france having formed the most voluptuous, artificial character, in the higher orders of society, makes it less extraordinary to find the leading patriots  without principles or political knowledge, excepting what they had casually gleaned from books, only read to while away an idle hour not employed in pleasure. so superficial indeed was their acquaintance with any subject that demanded thought  and so great the degeneracy of their manners, it was natural for every  of reflection to infer, that a considerable length of time must elapse before the new order of things, which they were about to create, could attain stability. but this was / not a discouraging consideration, when it was obvious, that important advantages had already been gained by the people; and by the improvement of morals, which would necessarily follow, it was to be presumed, that the evils, the old system produced, would vanish before gradual amendments; whilst, by a practical knowledge of political and civil liberty, the great objects of the revolution would be ascertained; namely, just laws, and equal liberty. in a savage state, without intellectual amusements, or even fields or vineyards to employ them, depending for subsistance on the casual supply of the chace, seem continually to have made war, one with another, or nation with nation; and the booty taken from their enemies formed the principal object of contest, because war was not, like industry, a kind of abridgement of their liberty. but the social feelings of , after having been exercised by a perilous life, flow over in long stories, when he reaches garrulous old age. whilst his listening progeny wondering at his feats, their hearts are fired with the ambition / of equaling their sire. his soul also warmed by sympathy, feeling for the distresses of his fellow creatures, and particularly for the helpless state of decrepit age; he begins to contemplate, as desirable, associations of , to prevent the inconveniencies arising from loneliness and solitude. hence little communities living together in the bonds of friendship, securing to them the accumulated powers of , mark the origin of society: and tribes growing into nations, spreading themselves over the globe, form different languages, which producing different interests, and misunderstandings, excite distrust.it is the nature of , either in a savage state or living in society, to protect his property; and it is wise in a government to encourage this spirit. for the example now displayed by france is a notable proof of the inexpediency of standing armies, so long as the people have an interest in supporting the political system under which they live. the national assembly, aware of this, invited the militia and the municipalities, to endeavour to quell the disorders which did violence to persons and property;the melioration of the old government of france arose entirely from a degree of urbanity acquired by the higher class, which insensibly produced, by a kind of natural courtesy, a small portion of civil liberty. but, as for political liberty, there was not the shadow of it; or could it ever have been generated under such a system: because, whilst  were prevented not onlythe birthright of , to give you, sir, a short definition of this disputed right, is such a degree of liberty, civil and religious, as is / compatible with the liberty of every other individual with whom he is united in a social compact, and the continued existence of that compact.dliberty, in this simple, unsophisticated sense, i acknowledge, is a fair idea that has never yet received a form in the various governments that have been established on our beauteous globe; the demon of property has ever been at hand to encroach on the sacred rights of , and to fence round with awful pomp laws that war with justice. but that it results from the eternal foundation of right  from immutable truth  who will presume to deny, that pretends to rationality  if  has led them to build their morality and religion on / an everlasting foundation  the attributes of god?it is necessary emphatically to repeat, that there are rights which  inherit at their birth, as rational creatures, who were raised above the brute creation by their improvable faculties; and that, in receiving these, not from their forefathers but, from god, prescription can never undermine natural rights.if i were not afraid to derange your nervous system by the bare mention of a metaphysical enquiry, i should observe, sir, that self-preservation is, literally speaking, the first law of nature; and that the care necessary to support and guard the body is the first step to unfold the mind, and inspire a manly spirit of independence. the mewing babe in swaddling-clothes, who is treated like a superior being, may perchance become a gentleman; but nature must have given him uncommon faculties if, when pleasure hangs on every bough, he has sufficient fortitude either to exercise his / mind or body in order to acquire personal merit. the passions are necessary auxiliaries of : a present impulse pushes us forward, and when we discover that the game did not deserve the chace, we find that we have gone over much ground, and not only gained many new ideas, but a habit of thinking. the exercise of our faculties is the great end, though not the goal we had in view when we started with such eagerness.in the name of the people of england, you say, 'that we know we have made no discoveries; and we think that no discoveries are to be made in morality; nor many in the great principles of government, nor in the ideas of liberty, which were understood long before we were born, altogether as well as they will be after the grave has heaped its mould upon our presumption, and the silent tomb shall have imposed its law on our pert loquacity. in england we have not yet been completely emboweled of our natural entrails; we still feel within us, and we cherish and cultivate those inbred sentiments which / are faithful guardians, the active monitors of our duty, the true supporters of all liberal and manly morals.'  what do you mean by inbred sentiments? from whence do they come? how were they bred? are they the brood of folly, which swarm like the insects on the banks of the nile, when mud and putrefaction have enriched the languid soil? were these inbred sentiments faithful guardians of our duty when the church was an asylum for murderers, and  worshipped bread as a god? when slavery was authorized by law to fasten her fangs on human flesh, and the iron eat into the very soul? if these sentiments are not acquired, if our passive dispositions do no expand into virtuous affections and passions, why are not the tartars in the first rude horde endued with sentiments white and elegant as the driven snow? why is passion or heroism the child of reflection, the / consequence of dwelling with intent contemplation on one object? the appetites are the only perfect inbred powers that i can discern; and they like instincts have a certain aim, they can be satisfied  butthat both physical and moral evil were not only foreseen, but entered into the scheme of / providence, when this world was contemplated in the divine mind, who can doubt, without robbing omnipotence of a most exalted attribute? but the business of the life of a good  should be, to separate light from darkness; to diffuse happiness, whilst he submits to unavoidable misery. and a conviction that there is much unavoidable wretchedness, appointed by the grand disposer of all events, should not slacken his exertions: the extent of what is possible can only be discerned by god. the justice of god may be vindicated by a belief in a future state; but, only by believing that evil is educing good for the individual, and not for an imaginary whole. the happiness of the whole must arise from the happiness of the constituent parts, or the essence of justice is sacrificed to a supposed grand arrangement. and that may be good for the whole of a creature's existence, that disturbs the comfort of a small portion. the evil which / an individual suffers for the good of the community is partial, it must be allowed, if the account is settled by death.  but the partial evil which it suffers, during one stage of existence, to render another stage more perfect, is strictly just. the father of all only can regulate the education of his children. to suppose that, during the whole or part of its existence, the happiness of any individual is sacrificed to promote the welfare of ten, or ten thousand, other beings  is impious. but to suppose that the happiness, or animal enjoyment, of one portion of existence is sacrificed to improve and ennoblebut, if  are to be excluded, without having a voice, from a participation of the natural rights of mankind, prove first, to ward off the charge of injustice and inconsistency, that they want   else this flaw in your new constitution[ ] will ever shew that  must, in some shape, / act like a tyrant, and tyranny, in whatever part of society it rears its brazen front, will ever undermine morality.consequently the perfection of our nature and capability of happiness, must be estimated by the degree of , virtue, and knowledge, that distinguish the individual, and direct the laws which bind society: and that from the exercise of , knowledge and virtue naturally flow, is equally undeniable, if mankind be viewed collectively.that the society is formed in the wisest manner, whose constitution is founded on the nature of , strikes, in the abstract, every thinking being so forcibly, that it looks like presumption to endeavour to bring forward proofs; though proof must be brought, or the strong hold of prescription will never be forced by ; yet to urge prescription as / an argument to justify the depriving  (or ) of their natural rights, is one of the absurd sophisms which daily insult common sense.the question is, whether it procures most pain or pleasure? the answer will decide the propriety of dr gregory's advice, and shew how absurd and tyrannic it is thus to lay down a system of slavery; or to attempt to educate moral beings by any other rules than those deduced from pure , which apply to the whole species.let not  then in the pride of power, use the same arguments that tyrannic kings and venal ministers have used, and fallaciously assert that  ought to be subjected because she has always been so.  but, when , governed by reasonable laws, enjoys his natural freedom, let him despise , if she do not share it with him; and, till that glorious period arrives, in descanting on the folly of the sex, let him not overlook his own.